# StrainMapperJ
An image processing and analysis toolkit for tissue mechanobiology.

This repository contains documentation and ImageJ/FIJI macros for StrainMapperJ (v1).

L.A. Davidson, S. Anjum, J. Yang, and G. Masak (in review), "StrainMapperJ: an easy to use digital image correlation tool-kit for exploring and quantifying the mechanics of deforming tissues."

Abstract: Multicellular tissues are shaped and remodel during development, organogenesis, wound healing, cancer, regeneration, as well as during a broad range of diseases. Time-lapse sequences of tissue movements convey a wealth of information about the processes driving their self-assembly and mechanobiology. Here we present StrainMapperJ, a digital image correlation (DIC) tool and supporting macros for the widely used, open-source image analysis package ImageJ that can produce a diverse set of maps for mechanical data exploration. At its core, StrainMapperJ uses the ImageJ plugin bUnwarpJ to map deformations in one image to match a second. From these results, StrainMapperJ can generate 2D maps of mechanical strain in the image-frame, principle engineering strain and orientation, area strains, synthetic movement trajectories, and vorticity. StrainMapperJ is capable of generating a variety of graphical outputs for quantitative analysis that are register or map mechanical information directly over the source image sequence. Additionally, the algorithms used in StrainMapperJ can yield quantitative information from short time-lapse sequences, often only a few minutes duration, reducing the need for long term imaging. Together with these macros we provide guidance on preparing image data sets, troubleshooting the analysis pipeline, and interpreting StrainMapperJ produced maps for hypothesis generation and testing.
